restart_flg # This character variable must be assigned one of two values, namely “restart” or “norestart”. If it is supplied as “restart”, PEST “leaves tracks” as it runs, dumping the contents of its arrays to binary files, and continuously updating those files, so that its execution can be re-commenced later if it is intentionally or accidently halted. PEST execution can be restarted using a variety of switches, each of which instructs PEST to behave differently as it re-commences the inversion process. See later for details. See appendix B for a listing of the files which hold PEST’s restart data; note that these files can become large where an inverse problem employs many parameters and many observations.\
mode # This character variable must be supplied as “estimation”, “prediction”, “regularisation” or “pareto”. For all but “estimation”, a section must be added to the bottom of the PEST control file containing variables which govern its operation when working in that mode. If such a section is present and PEST is not running in that mode, then that section is ignored.
npar # This is the total number of parameters featured in the current PEST case, including adjustable, fixed and tied parameters; NPAR must be supplied as an integer.
nobs # This is the total number of parameters featured in the current PEST case, including adjustable, fixed and tied parameters; NPAR must be supplied as an integer.
num_of_para_groups # [NPARGP] This is the number of parameter groups. Recall from the previous chapter that the variables which govern the operation of finite-difference derivatives are assigned to parameter groups. Parameter grouping can also be of importance where the ADDREG1 utility described in part II of this manual is employed to add preferred value Tikhonov regularisation to a PEST control file.
nprior # NPRIOR, another integer variable, is the number of articles of prior information that are included in the parameter estimation process. If there are no articles of prior information, NPRIOR must be zero.
num_of_obs_groups # NOBSGP, another integer variable, is the number of observation groups featured in the PEST control file. Each observation and each prior information equation must be assigned to an observation group (they can all be assigned to the same group if desired). When PEST evaluates the total objective function it also evaluates the contribution made to this total by each observation group.
max_comp_dim # MAXCOMPDIM is an optional integer variable. It is used to activate compressed internal storage of the Jacobian matrix by PEST. This can slow PEST execution. At the same time it can allow PEST to undertake very highly parameterized inversion wherein adjustable parameters may number in the tens of thousands. This is further discussed in section 15.4, where the role of the MAXCOMPDIM variable is fully explained.
num_mod_input_files # This is an integer variable, informing PEST of the number of model input files which contain parameters; PEST must write each of these files prior to a model run. As there must be one template file for each such model input file, NTPLFLE is also equal to the number of template files which PEST must use in writing the current parameter set. A model may have many input files; however PEST is concerned only with those which it needs to rewrite prior to each model run, i.e. those for which there are template files. As explained later, a single template file may, under some circumstances, be used to write more than one model input file. In such a case you must count each template file - model input file pair separately in determining NTPLFLE.
